# Curved-sided-hexagram
This repository contains the codebase for the numerical implementation of the Kirchhoff rod model for the state transition of a curved-sided hexagram, as studied in our JMPS paper titled “Multiple equilibrium states of a curved-sided hexagram: Part II—Transitions between states”.  Using these codes, the moment curve, energy landscape, state transition process of the curved-sided hexagram with different natural curvatures under bending loads can be obtained. To run these codes, you first need to install the Continuation Core and Toolboxes (COCO) for MATLAB, which can be downloaded from the following link: https://sourceforge.net/projects/cocotools/. After downloading all the codes into a single folder, run the HexETCoco.m file to solve the differential equation systems and obtain the moment curve and folded configuration of the curved-sided hexagram under bending. Necessary instructions are included in the code to help readers understand and use it effectively. 
Please note that the codes uploaded here are specifically designed for the analysis of hexagonal rings (both straight and curved-sided) under bending loads. For other types of rings and loading methods, readers can modify the code accordingly based on the rod model developed in our papers. 
Additionally, the current code is a modified version of the original code developed by Dr. Xiaohao Sun in the paper “Phase diagram and mechanics of snap-folding of ring origami by twisting, International Journal of Solids and Structures, 2022, 248, 111685”, which studied the folding behavior of rings with various geometries under twisting. 
# Citation
Lu, L., Dai, J., Leanza, S., Hutchinson, J. W., & Zhao, R. R. (2023). Multiple equilibrium states of a curved-sided hexagram: Part II—Transitions between states. Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids, 180, 105407.
